---
layout: '../../layouts/BlogPost.astro'
title: 'The Bright Side of Disappointment'
pubDate: '2022-01-05'
video: 'https://www.youtube.com/embed/ujJQyhB0dws'
---

We as human beings have outcomes that we desire in our lives. Our world constantly invokes the sense that once we achieve a desire, our lives will be remarkably better and that we can finally have this sort of "break" or "peace" in our lives. We hear things like "dreams do come true" and phrases like "make it in this world". These phrases subconsciously depict the concept that material things determine our **success** in this world. Sure, you might have a beautiful loving family and/or friends that contributes happiness, but even if we take our loved ones entirely out of the picture, our desires often fluctuate as excitement starts to become stale. I am talking about the need to fulfill the constant desire for dopamine hits. Therefore, we often try new things or work hard to achieve something to try to find our ultimate place of happiness. Our problem is that we have a hard time being happy where we are, and we often believe that the grass would be greener if things were different. However, the harsh reality is, and many people already know, that we may never feel how we had hoped to feel once we have reached our goal. Therefore, we find ourselves constantly chasing a desired outcome that may not exist.

A common example of this is the concept of **retirement**. It almost seems like this is meant to be the end goal during our physical lives. We spend our whole lives saving money for this point, but some don’t even make it that far, others become too old to do anything that they wanted to do during this time, and others realize that they were much happier when they weren’t retired. As Andy Bernard from _The Office_ once said: “I wish there was a way to know you’re in the good old days, before you’ve actually left them.”.

Every single person, at some point in their (average) lifespan, finds out about this reality the hard way. For some people, it might not be until they are 80 years old. I am 21 years old today, and I have fortunately become aware of this through struggles and disappointing realities. However, for some reason, I still find myself eager to try to find that perfect happiness even though I know it will never exist. Why is that? I have come to the realization that the disappointing realities that we face are often **necessary** to truly impact our awareness of this issue. We need to experience, firsthand, the tremendous amount of work that the process of achieving our desires involve, in order to have that great amount of disappointment that will change our thoughts of this world for the better. Ultimately the “mind-blowing” realization, boils down to the fact that we must be self-sufficient. We need to be able to be content with ourselves without any need for social acceptance of others. We need to be kind and love one another along with our worst enemies. And finally, we need to be thankful for all that we have and stop worrying about things that are out of our control. This includes being thankful for every detail of ourselves and how we were born, as there is no two people made exactly the same.
